---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

### Updates on what I have done so far with freeCodeCamp

It turns out that the three issues I identified in the previous week's blog post (see [here](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr19.github.io/HasanAbdullah31-weekly/week06/))
have been taken/resolved by other people already. In the future, I should select issues that are given less attention so that I have a chance to make a contribution.

I have also found another issue that I think I can contribute to - "Allow username display to be case-insensitive" ([here](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues/35525)).
I searched for the files in which the changes needed to be made, and messed around with them on my local machine. Unfortunately, I saw no changes in the username display
after I made the modifications. I am planning on discussing this issue with my team, so that we can work on it together and hopefully make some progress.

### Summary of course-related activity

#### Friday, March 8

Each team in the class gave a brief description of the state their project is in, and then we learned about a common GitHub workflow.
We then formed teams in class and did a team-based GitHub activity ([GitHub Workflow 01](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-spr19/github-workflow-activity-01)).

#### Tuesday, March 12

Patrick Masson (General Manager of the Board of Directors of the Open Source Initiative, or OSI) gave a presentation on Working in Open Source. There was
also a Q&A about working in open source afterwards.

### Contributions

None this week.
