---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

### Progress report on what I did this week with freeCodeCamp

- I have gone through the freeCodeCamp codebase, and have a pretty solid understanding of the main structure and contents of the project.
- In the previous week's blog post (see [here](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr19.github.io/HasanAbdullah31-weekly/week07/)), I mentioned
that I would like to work on the issue "Allow username display to be case-insensitive" ([here](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/issues/35525)).
The issue has been claimed by two other people, and I don't think that it would be a good idea to add 4 more people to it.
- I have looked at freeCodeCamp's challenge contribution guidelines, and I am thinking about working on creating a challenge with
my team instead of fixing an issue (which tend to be claimed fairly quickly, given that freeCodeCamp is such an active project).

### Summary of course-related activity

#### Friday, March 15

We had our second in-class assessment today on licenses and Mozilla. We then had a lesson on a GitHub workflow, and (almost) finished the GitHub
Workflow activity that we started last week. We spent the rest of the class working on our group projects and giving brief reports on them.

#### Tuesday, March 19

I was out sick today, unfortunately. I looked through the GitHub Workflow activity so I wouldn't miss out on anything important, and my teammates finished it
without me. I also watched Tom Callaway's [license video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PTYuDrQpyH0) and it taught me the essentials of open source licenses.

### Contributions

None this week.
